# Prepared Statements

## Lesson Objectives

1. Describe Why We Need Prepared Statements
1. Use a Prepared Statement

## Describe Why We Need Prepared Statements

Databases are vulnerable to SQL attacks.  For the following statement:

```sql
SELECT * FROM people WHERE name = "#{id}";
```

A hacker could fill out a form that submits to a page that uses that code with a name of `Bob"; DROP DATABASE people;"`.  The resulting code would be:

```sql
SELECT * FROM people WHERE name = "Bob"; DROP DATABASE people;"";
```

Not good!

To combat this, most SQL databases implement prepared statements which prevent variables from terminating the statement itself and creating other SQL statements.  It basically doesn't allow quotes (either single or double) to close off the statement that the variable is being inserted into.

This is also good if you find that you have form inputs that users typically enter either single or double quotes into.  For instance, you could have a title field.  If a user had a title like `Matt's Awesome Title`, that could potentially mess things up, even though the user didn't mean any harm.

## Use a Prepared Statement

To swap out a regular SQL statement for a prepared SQL statement, you only need to change a few lines of code.  Take the following regular SQL statement:

```ruby
results = DB.exec(
    <<-SQL
        SELECT *
        FROM people
        WHERE id = #{id};
    SQL
)
```

You can prepare the previous statement like so:

```ruby
begin
    DB.describe_prepared('select_person') #try to describe the prepared statement named 'select_person'
rescue PG::InvalidSqlStatementName #if it doesn't exist, execute the following code
    #           name of prepared statement statement
    DB.prepare('select_person',
        #the statement to save as 'select_person'
        <<-SQL
            SELECT *
            FROM people
            WHERE id = $1;
        SQL
    )
end
results = DB.exec_prepared('select_person', [id])
```

Things to keep in mind:

- You have to come up with a unique name for each SQL statement that you want to prepare.  You can't have duplicate names.
- For each variable you want to insert, change `#{some_var}` to `$1` or some other number if there is more than one variable.  Keep in mind `$1` maps to the first element in the array being passed in as the second parameter of `DB.exec_prepared`.  You'd think it would start at `$0` to match array indices, but it doesn't.

**BONUS!** Watch this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ciNHn38EyRc
